THE FINAL FRONTIER.
Kirk: SPACE:
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
THESE ARE THE VOYAGES
TO EXPLORE STRANGE NEW WORLDS,
ITS FIVE-YEAR MISSION:
AND NEW CIVILIZATIONS,
TO SEEK OUT NEW LIFE
WHERE NO MAN HAS GONE BEFORE.
TO BOLDLY GO
Kirk: CAPTAIN'S LOG,
STARDATE 5683.1.
WE'RE MAKING A RENDEZVOUS
WITH THE VEDALA ASTEROID
ON A UNIQUE MISSION.
THE VEDALA ARE THE OLDEST
SPACE-FARING RACE WE KNOW.
INCREDIBLY DANGEROUS
THEY SAY SOMETHING
TO THE SAFETY OF OUR GALAXY
IS DEVELOPING,
FOR SELECTED SPECIALISTS,
AND THEY HAVE SENT
INCLUDING SPOCK AND MYSELF.
MAINTAIN THE ENTERPRISE
IN THIS POSITION, SULU.
IF SPOCK AND I SURVIVE,
WE'LL RETURN HERE.
IF NOT...
YOUR ORDERS. ENERGIZE.
MR. SCOTT, YOU HAVE
WELCOME, CAPTAIN JAMES KIRK
AND COMMANDER SPOCK.
Vedala:
I WILL INTRODUCE YOU.
FIRST, TCHAR.
PRINCE OF THE SKORR,
HEREDITARY
MASTER OF THE AERIE.
SORD.
TO THIS MAD EXPEDITION.
Em: I WAS SENTENCED
MY PEOPLE ARE CAUTIOUS,
WHAT YOU WOULD CALL COWARDS.
LOCKPICK AND THIEF,
YOU ARE WELCOME.
AS AN EXPERT
EM/3/GREEN.
LARA IS A HUNTER.
SHE HAS A FLAWLESS
DIRECTIONAL SENSE,
WHERE YOU ARE GOING.
A NECESSARY SKILL
AND SCIENTIFIC EXPERTISE.
FOR HIS ANALYTICAL MIND
MR. SPOCK WAS CHOSEN
CAPTAIN KIRK FOR HIS LEADERSHIP
AND ADAPTABILITY.
TCHAR WILL EXPLAIN
YOUR MISSION.
TWO CENTURIES PAST,
MY PEOPLE, THE SKORR,
WERE GREAT WARRIORS.
MILITARY TECHNOLOGY
WE HAD ADVANCED
VAST ARMIES RAPIDLY.
AND WE COULD BREED
WE ARE A CIVILIZED PEOPLE
BUT TODAY,
BECAUSE OF ALAR.
A RELIGIOUS LEADER,
WAS HE NOT?
AND OUR TEACHER.
OUR SALVATION
HE BROUGHT US PEACE.
HE MADE US GREAT.
AND WE MADE HIM IMMORTAL.
HE DIED,
ALAR'S BRAIN PATTERNS
BEFORE HIS DEATH,
WERE RECORDED
INDURITE SCULPTURE.
IN A PIECE OF
THE SOUL OF THE SKORR,
WAS STOLEN.
OUR SOUL,
A RACIAL FURY IN THE SKORR.
THE THEFT TRIGGERED
THEY ARE PREPARING FOR WAR.
AGAINST WHOM?
THE KNOWN GALAXY.
IT IS A VERY REAL THREAT.
IN TWO STANDARD YEARS,
THE EXISTING SKORR
COULD BREED AN ARMY
OF 200 BILLION WARRIORS.
MY GOVERNMENT FEARS THIS,
HAS BEEN KEPT SECRET.
OF THE SOUL OF ALAR
SO THE THEFT
BUT WE MUST RECOVER IT
BEFORE MY PEOPLE
DISCOVER IT GONE
LAUNCH A JIHAD,
AND GO MAD,
A HOLY WAR ON THE GALAXY.
WHO TOOK THE SOUL?
UNKNOWN.
THE MOTIVE, AS TCHAR HAS SAID,
TO PROVOKE A HOLY WAR.
Spock: IS THERE ANY CLUE
TO ITS LOCATION?
[ROARS]
GEOLOGICALLY UNSTABLE.
A MAD PLANET.
GRAVITIC SHIFTS, TIDAL WAVES.
CONSTANT EARTHQUAKES,
FROM 20 KELVIN TO 204 ABOVE.
THE TEMPERATURE VARIES
THE SOUL OF ALAR IS HIDDEN.
SOMEWHERE ON THAT PLANET,
THREE EXPEDITIONS HAVE
TRIED TO RECOVER IT.
THREE EXPEDITIONS
HAVE BEEN LOST.
YOU ARE THE NEXT,
IF YOU AGREE.
A POWERFUL RACE.
THE VEDALA ARE
WHY HAVEN'T YOUR PEOPLE
RETRIEVED THE SOUL?
MY PEOPLE COULD NOT SURVIVE
ON THAT PLANET.
YOU HAVE A CHANCE.
-WE AGREE.
-THEN IT IS DONE.
Tchar: I CANNOT FEEL
THE SOUL!
WE ARE NOWHERE
NEAR IT.
THAT IS TO BE EXPECTED.
THE SURFACE OF THIS PLANET
SHIFTS CONSTANTLY.
WHERE THE SOUL IS.
EVEN THE VEDALA
ARE NOT CERTAIN
IT HAS DIRECTIONAL EQUIPMENT
THAT KEYS ON INDURITE.
Kirk:
I LIKE THIS PLACE.
IT'S GOT VARIETY.
I CAN HANDLE THE MACHINE.
OUR DIRECTION IS INDICATED.
Em: IT'S PHASING,
UNFOCUSING.
WHY DID THE VEDALA CALL THIS
THE MAD PLANET?
I CAN TELL THE WAY.
MEANS NOTHING.
THAT WAY.
ARE YOU CERTAIN, HUMAN?
FOR SURE, BIRDMAN.
I CAN'T GET LOST.
DIRECTIONS. THAT'S WHY I'M HERE.
I CAN'T BE FOOLED ABOUT
NOT HAVE CHOSEN LARA
THE VEDALA WOULD
IF HER ABILITIES WERE
LESS THAN PERFECT.
AGREED, BUT WE'RE FORCED
TO TRAVEL ON THE GROUND.
I WANT AN OVERVIEW.
I WILL SCOUT OVERHEAD.
HAVE BEEN EFFICIENT
IN EQUIPPING US.
THE VEDALA WILL
I WILL ACQUAINT MYSELF
WITH OUR SUPPLIES.
NEVER LIKED THEM
MUCH MYSELF.
VULCANS.
COLD-BLOODED CRITTERS,
ALL OF THEM.
I WOULDN'T SAY THAT. MR. SPOCK
IS A UNIQUE PERSONALITY.
LIKE YOU AND ME.
BUT NOT HUMAN,
DIFFERENT CUSTOMS.
MAYBE YOU GOT
MY WORLD THERE'S
A LOT OF FEMALES,
NOT SO MANY MEN.
A MAN ATTRACTIVE,
COME WE FIND
WE SAY SO.
I'M SAYING SO.
HOW DO YOU FIND ME?
MM, FASCINATING.
ON A PLEASURE TRIP, LARA.
BUT WE'RE NOT HERE
TO TAKE WHAT PLEASURE
THERE MIGHT BE IN IT.
ALL THE MORE REASON
[LAUGHING]
THE SUPPLIES, CAPTAIN.
I HAVE CHECKED
THEY ARE ADEQUATE
AS EXPECTED,
AND THERE ARE WEAPONS.
THERE'S NO LIFE
ON THIS PLANET.
AGAINST WHAT?
BUT THERE IS, CAPTAIN.
OURSELVES.
AND THERE MAY BE OTHER THINGS
GUARDING THE SOUL OF ALAR.
[CHUCKLES] REAL WEATHER.
AND A HALF.
WE'LL ALL DIE HERE.
A STATISTICAL PROBABILITY.
BESIDES STATISTICS, VULCAN?
YOU EVER QUOTE ANYTHING
Spock: YES.
BUT PHILOSOPHY AND POETRY
ARE NOT APPROPRIATE HERE.
I CAN SEE SOMETHING.
THE SOUL OF ALAR IS THERE.
I CAN SENSE IT,
SOMETHING'S COMING.
Spock: A LAVA FLOW.
IS TO BE EXPECTED.
VOLCANIC ACTION
NEVER MIND THAT. YOU GOT
TO GET US OUT OF HERE.
TO DIVERT THE LAVA FLOW
WE MIGHT BE ABLE
WITH A BARRICADE.
A VISUAL ESTIMATE!
TCHAR, GET US
OF SHORT DURATION, CAPTAIN.
SUCH A DIVERSION WOULD BE
AND I MUST POINT OUT,
SUFFICIENT SPEED TO ESCAPE.
THE VEHICLE LACKS
ALL OF THE POWER PACK'S ENERGY
NOT IF WE USED
FOR ONE HIGH-SPEED RUN.
IT IS POSSIBLE,
OF THE POWER LEADS
BUT THE REWIRING
IS COMPLEX AND TIME-CONSUMING.
THE SCHEMATICS, SIR.
IF YOU CAN DIAGRAM
I COULD DO IT,
YES, QUICKLY THEN.
TERMINAL M-3-RED,
LEAD TO DIODE SHUNT A-37.
CROSS-CONNECT TO A-14.
KIRK! THERE IS A RAVINE
60 METERS TO YOUR LEFT.
IF IT CAN BE BLOCKED,
THE LAVA WILL FLOW PAST
THOSE ROCKS TO ONE SIDE.
GOT IT.
-SORD.
-I HEARD HIM!
CAREFULLY, EM.
ONE MISSED CONNECTION
COULD DESTROY US.
I KNOW. I'M TRYING
TO BE CAREFUL.
A LITTLE TIME. FEW MINUTES.
WE'VE BOUGHT OURSELVES
I FIGURE
IT'S RE-RIGGED. HURRY.
COME ON, INSECT,
MOVE IT!
21 DEGREES EAST.
OUT OF THE FLOW PATH.
50 METERS TO GET
HURRY.
GO.
LEAVE, ALL OF YOU.
NOT WITHOUT YOU.
CAPTAIN, YOU MUST GET
THE OTHERS AWAY.
WE'RE ALL GETTING AWAY.
CLOSE.
FAR TOO CLOSE, CAPTAIN.
YOUR ACTION ON MY BEHALF,
I APPRECIATE
IS TO THE GROUP AND THE MISSION.
BUT YOUR FIRST DUTY
QUITE RIGHT, SPOCK,
AND THAT RESPONSIBILITY
INCLUDES NOT LOSING
THE BEST SCIENCE OFFICER
IN STARFLEET.
TO ARGUE HONORS,
YOU TWO GOING
TO GET ON WITH IT?
OR ARE WE GOING
[WIND HOWLING]
OH! AND I WAS JUST GOING TO ASK
WHAT NEXT?
WE MOVE ON.
THE POWER PACK
IS BURNED OUT.
WE'LL HAVE TO CARRY
THE EQUIPMENT.
ANYTHING?
WAIT! YES, YES!
AAH!
I CAN'T GO ANY FARTHER.
AFRAID ANYMORE.
I'M NOT EVEN
JUST VERY TIRED.
COME ON, EM, A BIT MORE.
NO. I'M FINISHED.
SORRY, EM, WE'LL BE NEEDING YOU.
SORD.
LET ME GO.
HANG ON.
I'LL GO AHEAD.
WHAT IS IT?
NOT SURE.
THOUGHT I SAW SOMETHING
MOVE IN THE BRUSH.
THERE IS NO LIFE
ON THIS PLANET.
GUESS YOU'RE RIGHT.
THIS PLANET JUST GETS
ON YOUR NERVES.
I CAN SENSE THE SOUL.
EXAMINE THE BUILDING,
I WILL FLY AHEAD,
AND MEET YOU
ON THE WAY.
TCHAR. BE CAREFUL.
WE NEED YOU, TOO.
WE'RE TIRED, SORE,
HURT, AND ANGRY.
JUST ABOUT THERE.
BUT WE'RE ALSO
I'LL SCOUT AHEAD. EVERYBODY ELSE
STAY TOGETHER, KEEP MOVING.
I'LL GO WITH YOU.
REMEMBER, SCOUTING'S MY JOB.
BY RIGHTS, I SHOULD BE
DOING IT ALONE.
SORD, WHAT DID YOU THINK
YOU SAW BACK THERE?
DON'T KNOW, VULCAN.
A SHAPE, COULDN'T REALLY
MAKE IT OUT.
PROBABLY SEEING THINGS,
LIKE KIRK FIGURES.
THERE SHOULD BE NO LIFE
ON THIS PLANET.
YOU KEEP SAYING THAT.
YES.
WOULD HAVE INFORMED US
THE VEDALA
ANY LIVE BEINGS HERE
WE SHOULD KNOW OF.
IF THERE WERE
DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT IT.
MAYBE THE VEDALA
THAT IS AN IMPOSSIBILITY.
I'M NOT SO SURE.
THINK SO?
THAT'S IT. END OF A LONG,
HARD JOURNEY.
TO GO BACK, JAMES.
WE STILL HAVE
I TELL YOU TRUE, I FIND YOU
AN ATTRACTIVE MAN.
THE TRIP WOULD BE EASIER.
IF WE WERE TOGETHER,
AND IF ANYTHING HAPPENED,
WHY, UH, WE'D HAVE SOME
GREEN MEMORIES.
A LOT OF GREEN MEMORIES.
I ALREADY HAVE
-OH.
-MAYBE SOME OTHER TIME, LARA.
WE STILL HAVE OUR WORK
CUT OUT FOR US HERE.
Spock: IS THIS NOT THE SHAPE
PRIMITIVE TEMPLES?
OF YOUR PEOPLE'S
THE ENTRANCE SHOULD BE...
YES,
CAN YOU OPEN IT?
THERE'S NO LOCK I CAN'T PICK.
WHAT IS IT?
I'M OPENING THE LOCKS.
WONDERFUL.
A TIMED TRIGGER.
NO. THEY'RE ON
ALL THE LOCKS OPEN
IF I DON'T GET
QUICKLY ENOUGH,
IT EXPLODES.
[CREATURES SCREECHING]
I'LL COVER YOU.
KEEP WORKING.
THEY'RE MECHANICAL.
THE VEDALA WERE RIGHT.
THERE ARE NO LIVING
CREATURES HERE,
ONLY THE MECHANIZED SENTINELS.
HURRY, SMALL ONE.
WE'LL HIT TCHAR.
WHAT HAPPENED TO TCHAR?
TO TELL FROM HERE.
THERE'S NO WAY
THE MECHANICAL EXPLODED.
WE CAN'T REACH THE ROOF
FROM THE OUTSIDE.
TO TRY TO GET TO HIM
FROM THE INTERIOR.
WE'LL HAVE
DONE.
WE COULD REST AWHILE. LARA?
Kirk:
NO. WE'VE COME THIS FAR.
LET'S FINISH IT.
DEADFALL A CHANCE
OR GIVE THIS
TO FINISH US.
I, TOO, WOULD PREFER
TO PRESS ON, CAPTAIN.
THE MECHANICALS
ON GUARD MAY BE
TRACKING US EARLIER.
WHAT SORD SAW
OR THERE MAY BE OTHERS.
MORE ADVANTAGEOUS
IN EITHER CASE,
IT WOULD BE
TO AVOID ANOTHER ENCOUNTER.
HOW DO WE REACH IT?
Sord: PRETTY.
Spock: THE WALLS ARE
NOT CLIMBABLE.
WHICH WE DON'T HAVE.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT,
Kirk: NOT WITHOUT
TO REACH IT FROM HERE,
EITHER WE FIND A WAY
OR WE FAIL.
[DOOR CLOSING]
NO LOCK ON THE INSIDE.
-WE'RE PRISONERS.
-THAT'S RIGHT.
YOU'RE NOT EXACTLY SURPRISED.
THREE PREVIOUS EXPEDITIONS
TRIED AND WERE LOST.
THE PLANET IS A NATURAL TRAP,
BUT THAT'S NOT ENOUGH.
YOU SUGGEST SABOTAGE,
CAPTAIN?
YES, FROM INSIDE
EACH EXPEDITION.
REMEMBER, SPOCK, YOU WERE
THE ONE WHO SAID
THERE ARE NO LIFE FORMS HERE
EXCEPT OURSELVES.
ONE OF US?
IT'S LIKELY.
IN FAVOR OF THE POSSIBILITY.
APPROXIMATELY 82.5%
Kirk: BUT IT DOESN'T MATTER
IF WE REACH THE SOUL.
APPARENTLY THE OTHERS
DIDN'T GET THIS FAR.
THAT SORT OF THING.
I'M NOT BUILT FOR
I'LL WAIT FOR YOU DOWN HERE.
[RUMBLING]
GEOLOGICALLY UNSTABLE.
THE PLANET IS
INHERENTLY FLEXIBLE,
THIS STRUCTURE IS
TO WITHSTAND EARTHQUAKES.
ENABLING IT
BUT WHAT ABOUT US?
IT CAN,
LOOK.
ALMOST REACH IT.
Em: WE CAN
MAYBE I CAN GET
A LINE ON IT.
IN A FORCE FIELD.
IT IS LOCKED
MERELY BOUNCE OFF IT.
YOUR ROPE WOULD
WILL OUR COMBINED PHASERS
DISRUPT THE FIELD?
SPOCK,
THE FIELD'S ENERGY BASE,
I CANNOT DEFINE
CAPTAIN, BUT...
THE LAST PIECE
OF SABOTAGE.
I KNOW WHO YOU ARE.
NO METHOD OF REACHING THE SOUL,
A THOUSAND FEET UP,
EXCEPT BY AIR,
BY FLIGHT.
TCHAR.
TCHAR. IN THE NAME OF
THE SEVEN GODS, WHY?
YOU STOLE THIS.
ACROSS THE GALAXY.
A BLOODY CRUSADE
YOU'LL START
TELL US WHY, TCHAR.
THE SKORR WERE
A WARRIOR RACE.
NOW WHAT ARE WE?
THE ILLUSION OF PEACE,
SLAVES TO
SOFT IN OUR COMFORT.
COWARDS
HAS STOLEN OUR SOULS.
THIS SICK DREAM
I AM TCHAR,
PRINCE OF THE SKORR,
LEADER OF BATTLES.
HEREDITARY
GLORY, TO AVENGE OUR HISTORY.
I WILL LEAD MY PEOPLE INTO
WILL BE KILLED.
MOST OF THEM
THE WARRIOR RACES
OF THE FEDERATION
WILL RISE TO BATTLE
THE SKORR.
TO WIN A GREAT DREAM.
YES. A NOBLE DEATH
NO LONGER LIKE WORMS
CRAWLING IN THE DIRT.
WE WILL LIVE
WE WILL CONQUER.
YOU WILL DIE.
BUT YOU HAVE MY RESPECT.
YOU FOUGHT WELL.
YOU DIE IN GRACE.
A GRAVITY NEUTRALIZER
Em: HE'S TURNED ON
IN THE BUILDING.
NOW YOU CAN FLY,
AS A SKORR.
AND FIGHT
NO OFFENSE, LITTLE ONES,
BUT LET ME TACKLE HIM.
NOT IN FREE FALL.
USE YOUR PHASER ON HIM.
TOO RISKY.
THE FORTRESS PHASER BANK,
HE CONTROLS
AND THEY'RE SET ON KILL.
NO. IT HAS TO BE
ON HIS TERMS.
SPOCK, HOW LONG SINCE
YOU'VE WORKED OUT
COMBAT EXERCISES?
IN NULL-GRAVITY
LAST WEEK WITH YOU,
CAPTAIN.
LET'S GO.
CALL FOR RETRIEVAL, NOW.
Tchar: LET ME DIE.
Kirk: YOU'RE GOING BACK
WITH US.
WE GIVE YOU THANKS.
THE SOUL OF ALAR IS RETURNED
TO HIS PEOPLE.
WHAT ABOUT TCHAR?
HOW ARE YOU GOING
TO PUNISH HIM?
HE WILL BE HEALED
OF HIS MADNESS.
HE IS PROUD, BRAVE.
THAT HE WILL REMAIN,
BUT HE WILL ALSO BE SANE
AND WHOLE AGAIN.
[ROARS]
WE CANNOT REWARD YOU.
THIS MUST BE FOREVER SECRET.
FOR THE GOOD OF THE SKORR,
YOU HAVE ONLY OUR THANKS.
GOT NOWHERE TO KEEP
A MEDAL, ANYWAY.
BUT THERE'LL BE QUESTIONS.
NO.
YOU WILL RETURN,
AND YOU WILL SEE.
NO QUESTIONS, NO MEDALS,
THERE WILL BE
ONLY OUR THANKS.
AND IN TIME, EVEN THE MEMORY
WILL BE GONE FROM YOU.
GOODBYE, JAMES KIRK.
TOO BAD.
CAPTAIN, MR. SPOCK.
-WHAT HAPPENED?
-WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
YOU TRANSPORTED OVER
AND CAME RIGHT BACK.
UH, DID THEY CALL IT OFF?
HOW LONG WERE WE GONE?
LONG?
ABOUT TWO MINUTES, I GUESS.
I DON'T UNDERSTAND.
THE VEDALA CHANGED
THEIR MINDS.
THE DANGER IS PAST.
BACK TO YOUR STATIONS.
OF OTHER PLACES TO GO.
WE HAVE A LOT